# _Episode-01 Inception_

## 1: What is emmet?
`Emmet` is a web development tool and abbreviation syntax that helps developers write HTML and CSS code more quickly and efficiently.
## 2: Difference between library and framework?
A `framework` is used for building and deploying an application quickly.
A `library` is used to enhance the functionality of an application.
## 3: What is CDN? Why do we use it?
A content delivery network (CDN) is a network of interconnected servers that speeds up webpage loading for data-heavy applications.
## 4: What is cross origin in script tag?
A cross-origin request is a request for a resource (e.g. style sheets, iframes, images, fonts, or scripts) from another domain.
### _Syntax_
```bash
  <script crossorigin="anonymous|use-credentials">
```
## 5: What is the difference between react and react Dom?
`React` contains functionality utilised in web and mobile apps.
`ReactDOM` functionality is utilised only in web apps.
## 6: What is async and defer?
`Async` - The async attribute is a boolean attribute. The script is downloaded in parallel(in the background) to parsing the page, and executed as soon as it is available (do not block HTML DOM construction during downloading process) and don’t wait for anything.
### _Syntax_
```bash
  <script src="demo_async.js" async></script>
```
`Defer` - The defer attribute is a boolean attribute. The script is downloaded in parallel(in the background) to parsing the page, and executed after the page has finished parsing(when browser finished DOM construction). The defer attribute tells the browser not to wait for the script. Instead, the browser will continue to process the HTML, build DOM.
### _Syntax_
```bash
  <script src="demo_defer.js" defer></script>
```
## 7: Why is React known as React?
React is called React because it was designed to be a declarative, efficient, and flexible JavaScript library for building user interfaces. The name React was chosen because the library was designed to allow developers to "react" to changes in state and data within an application, and to update the user interface in a declarative and efficient manner. React is a JavaScript-based UI development library. Facebook and an open-source developer community run it.
