# _Episode-01 Igniting Our App_

## 1. What is NPM?
It is a tool used for package management and the default package manager for Node projects. NPM is installed when NodeJS is installed on a machine. It comes with a command-line interface (CLI) used to interact with the online database of NPM.
### _How to initialize npm?_
    npm init
`npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, npm takes care of it and creates the package.json json file automatically , but without configurations.

## 2. What is Parcel/Webpack? Why do we need it?
`Parcel` and `webpack` are the bundlers used mostly for JavaScript or Typescript code that helps you to minify, clean, and make your code compact so that it becomes easier to send a request or receive the response from the server when it usually takes you to transfer multiple files without using any bundler for loading the page of your application.
### _Parcel Features:_
* HMR (Hot Module Replacement) - parcel keeps track of file changes via file watcher algorithm and renders the changes in the files
* File watcher algorithm - written in C++
* Minification
* Cleaning our code
* DEVELOPMENT and PRODUCTION Build
* Super fast building algorithm
* Image optimization
* Caching while development
* Compression
* Compatible with older versions of browser
* HTTPS in development
* Manages Port Number
* Consistent hashing algorithm
* Zero Configuration
* Transitive Dependencies
* Automatic code splitting
### installation commands:
- Install:
```
npm install -D parcel
```
`-D` is used for development and as a development dependency.
### Parcel Commands:
* For development build:

        npx parcel <entry_point>

* For production build :

        npx parcel build <entry_point>

## 3: What is .parcel-cache?
The .cache folder (or .parcel-cache in parcel v2) stores information about your project when parcel builds it, so that when it rebuilds, it doesn't have to re-parse and re-analyze everything from scratch. It's a key reason why parcel can be so fast in development mode.

## 4: What is npx?
`npx` is a tool that is used to execute the packages. It comes with the npm, when you installed npm above 5.2.0 version then automatically npx will installed. It is an npm package runner that can execute any package that you want from the npm registry without even installing that package.

## 5: What is difference between dependencies vs devDependencies?
A `dependency` is a library that a project needs to function effectively, such as Vue, React, Angular, Express, JQuery and etc.. `DevDependencies` are the packages a developer needs during development.

## 6: What is Tree Shaking?
`Tree shaking` is a term commonly used within a JavaScript context to describe the removal of dead code. It relies on the import and export statements to detect if code modules are exported and imported for use between JavaScript files.

## 7: What is .gitignore? What should we add and not add into it?
The `.gitignore` file is a text file that tells Git which files or folders to ignore in a project during commit to the repository. The types of files you should consider adding to a .gitignore file are any files that do not need to get committed. for example, For security, the security key files and API keys should get added to the gitignore. package-lock.json should not add into your .gitignore file.

## 8: What is the difference between package.json and package-lock.json?
### `package.json`:
    This file is mandatory for every project
    It contains basic information about the project
    Application name/version/scripts

### `package-lock.json`:
    This file is automatically generated for those operations where npm modifies either the node_module tree or package-json.
    It is generated after an npm install
    It allows future devs & automated systems to download the same dependencies as the project.
    it also allows to go back to the past version of the dependencies without actual ‘committing the node_modules folder.
    It records the same version of the installed packages which allows to reinstall them. Future installs will be capable of building identical description tree.

~ or ^ in `package.json` file : These are used with the versions of the package installed.

### For example in `package.json` file:
`````
"dependencies": {
    "react": "^18.2.0",
    "react-dom": "^18.2.0"
}
`````
* **~** : Approximately equivalent to version, will update you to all future patch versions, without incrementing the minor version.
* **^** : Compatible with version, will update you to all future minor/patch versions, without incrementing the major version.

## 9: Why should I not modify package-lock.json?
package-lock.json file contains the information about the dependencies and their versions used in the project. Deleting it would cause dependencies issues in the production environment. So don't modify it, It's being handled automatically by NPM.

## 10: What is node_modules ? Is it a good idea to push that on git?
node_modules folder like a cache for the external modules that your project depends upon. When you npm install them, they are downloaded from the web and copied into the node_modules folder and Nodejs is trained to look for them there when you import them (without a specific path). Don't push node_modulesin github because it contains lots of files(more than 100 MB), it will cost you memory space.

## 11: What is the dist folder?
The /dist folder contains the minimized version of the source code. The code present in the /dist folder is actually the code which is used on production web applications. Along with the minified code, the /dist folder also comprises of all the compiled modules that may or may not be used with other systems.

## 12: What is browserslist?
Browserslist is a tool that allows specifying which browsers should be supported in your frontend app by specifying "queries" in a config file. It's used by frameworks/libraries such as React, Angular and Vue, but it's not limited to them.