# _Episode-03 Laying the Foundation_

## 1. What is JSX?
JSX stands for JavaScript XML. JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement() and/or appendChild() methods. JSX makes it easier to write and add HTML in React. JSX converts HTML tags into react elements.

### _Example 1 using JSX:_
`````````
const myElement = <h1>I Love JSX!</h1>;
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
`````````
### _Example 2 Without JSX:_
`````````
const myElement = React.createElement('h1', {}, 'I do not use JSX!');
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
`````````
## 2: Superpowers of JSX?
Using JSX, you can write markup inside Javascript, providing you with a superpower to write logic and markup of a component inside a single.jsx file.
### _Example_
`````
const name = 'Josh Perez';
const element = <h1>Hello, {name}</h1>;
`````
## 3: Role of type attribute in script tag? What options can I use there?
This attribute indicates the type of script represented. It has a Default value which is “text/javascript”.

### _`type` attribute can be of the following types:_

- `text/javascript`: It is the basic standard of writing javascript code inside the script tag.

### _Syntax_
``````
<script type="text/javascript"></script>
``````
- `text/ecmascript` : this value indicates that the script is following the EcmaScript standards.
- `module`: This value tells the browser that the script is a module that can import or export other files or modules inside it.
- `text/babel` : This value indicates that the script is a babel type and required bable to transpile it.
- `text/typescript`: As the name suggest the script is written in TypeScript.

## 4: {TitleComponent} vs {<TitleComponent/>} vs {<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>} in JSX.
- `{TitleComponent}`: This value describes the TitleComponent as a `javascript expression` or a `variable`. The {} can embed a javascript expression or a variable inside it.
- `<TitleComponent/>` : This value represents a Component that is basically returning Some JSX value. In simple terms TitleComponent a function that is returning a JSX value. A component is written inside the {<  />} expression.
- `<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>` : `<TitleComponent />` and `<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>` are equivalent only when `< TitleComponent />` has no child components. The opening and closing tags are created to include the child components.
### _Syntax_
`````
<TitleComponent>
    <FirstChildComponent />
    <SecondChildComponent />
    <ThirdChildComponent />
</TitleComponent>
`````



