# _Episode-04 - Talk is Cheap, show me the code_

## 1: Is JSX mandatory for React?
JSX is not a requirement for using React. JSX is an Extension Syntax that allows writing HTML and Javascript together easily in React and is used to create React elements. Using React without JSX is especially convenient when you don’t want to set up compilation in your build environment. Each JSX element is just syntactic sugar for calling React.createElement(component, props, ...children). So, anything you can do with JSX can also be done with just plain JavaScript.

### _For example, this code written with JSX:_
``````
class Hello extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return <div>Hello {this.props.toWhat}</div>;
  }
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(<Hello toWhat="World" />);
``````
### _Can be compiled to this code that does not use JSX:_
`````
class Hello extends React.Component {
  render() {
    return React.createElement('div', null, `Hello ${this.props.toWhat}`);
  }
}

const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(React.createElement(Hello, {toWhat: 'World'}, null));
`````
## 2: Is ES6 mandatory for React?
ES6 is the standardization of javascript for making code more readable and more accessible. If we don't use ES6 in react, there is an alternative to perform. We use create-react-class instead of ES6. React uses ES6, and you should be familiar with some of the new features like: Classes, Arrow Functions, Variables(let, const).

## 3: How can I write comments in JSX?
- `{/*  */}` - for Single or Multiline comments.
### _Example_
````````
{/* A JSX comment */}
{/*
  Multi
  line
  JSX
  comment
*/}
````````
## 4: What is <React.Fragment></React.Fragment> and <></>?
`<React.Fragment></React.Fragment>` is a feature in React that allows you to return multiple elements from a React component by allowing you to group a list of children without adding extra nodes to the DOM. `<></>` is the shorthand tag for React.Fragment. The only difference between them is that the shorthand version does not support the key attribute.
### _Example_
````
return (
        <React.Fragment>
            <Header />
            <Body />
            <Footer />
        </React.Fragment>
    );

return (
        <>
            <Header />
            <Body />
            <Footer />
        </>
    );
````
## 5: What is Virtual DOM?
DOM stands for Document Object Model, which represents your application UI and whenever the changes are made in the application, this DOM gets updated and the user is able to visualize the changes. DOM is an interface that allows scripts to update the content, style, and structure of the document.
- `Virtual DOM`
    - The Virtual DOM is a light-weight abstraction of the DOM. You can think of it as a copy of the DOM, that can be updated without affecting the actual DOM. It has all the same properties as the real DOM object, but doesn’t have the ability to write to the screen like the real DOM.
    - Virtual DOM is just like a blueprint of a machine, can do the changes in the blueprint but those changes will not directly apply to the machine.
    - Reconciliation is a process to compare and keep in sync the two files (Real and Virtual DOM). Diffing algorithm is a technique of reconciliation which is used by React.

## 6: What is Reconciliation in React?
`Reconciliation` is the process through which React updates the Browser DOM and makes React work faster. React use a `diffing algorithm` so that component updates are predictable and faster. React would first calculate the difference between the real DOM and the copy of DOM (Virtual DOM) when there's an update of components. React stores a copy of Browser DOM which is called `Virtual DOM`. When we make changes or add data, React creates a new Virtual DOM and compares it with the previous one. Comparison is done by `Diffing Algorithm`. React compares the Virtual DOM with Real DOM. It finds out the changed nodes and updates only the changed nodes in Real DOM leaving the rest nodes as it is. This process is called Reconciliation.

## 7: What is React Fiber?
React Fiber is a concept of ReactJS that is used to render a system faster, smoother and smarter. The Fiber reconciler, which became the default reconciler for React 16 and above, is a complete rewrite of React’s reconciliation algorithm to solve some long-standing issues in React. Because Fiber is asynchronous, React can:
- Pause, resume, and restart rendering work on components as new updates come in.
- Reuse previously completed work and even abort it if not needed
- Split work into chunks and prioritize tasks based on importance

## 8: Why we need keys in React? When do we need keys in React?
A `key` is a special attribute you need to include when creating lists of elements in React. Keys are used in React to identify which items in the list are changed, updated, or deleted. In other words, we can say that keys are unique Identifier used to give an identity to the elements in the lists. Keys should be given to the elements within the array to give the elements a stable identity.
### _Example_
``````
<li key={0}>1</li>
<li key={1}>2</li>
<li key={2}>3</li>
``````
## 9: Can we use index as keys in React?
Yes, we can use the index as keys, but it is not considered as a good practice to use them because if the order of items may change. This can negatively impact performance and may cause issues with component state. Keys are taken from each object which is being rendered. There might be a possibility that if we modify the incoming data react may render them in unusual order.

## 10: What is props in React? Ways to.
`props` stands for properties. Props are arguments passed into React components. `props` are used in React to pass data from one component to another (from a parent component to a child component(s)). They are useful when you want the flow of data in your app to be dynamic.
### _Example_
`````
function App() {
  return (
    <div className="App">
      <Tool name="Hrishi" tool="VSCode"/> // name and tool are props
    </div>
  )
}
`````
## 11: What is Config Driven UI?
In a `Configuration-Driven UI`, the layout, styles, and other properties of UI elements are defined in a configuration file or database, which can be easily modified without requiring changes to the codebase.