## _Episode-05 - Let's get Hooked_

## 1: What is the difference between Named export, Default export, and * as export?
When creating JavaScript modules, there are two common ways to export code from a file: using `export default` and using `export` with named exports. While both methods achieve the same goal of making code available for use in other modules, they differ in their syntax and the way that they are used. In this article, we'll explore the differences between these two approaches and when you might choose to use one over the other.
### _Export Default_
The `export default` syntax allows you to export a single value from a module as the default export. When another module imports the module that uses export default, the imported value will be whatever value was exported as the default. You can only have one default export per module.

Here’s an example of using export default to export a greeting message:
``````
const greeting = "Hello, world!";
export default greeting;
``````
And here’s an example of importing the default export from another module:
``````
import greeting from "./greetings.js";
console.log(greeting); // outputs "Hello, world!"
``````
As you can see, the import statement doesn't need to specify the name of the default export, since there can only be one.

### _Export with Named Exports_
The export syntax with `named exports` allows you to export multiple values from a module using named exports. When another module imports the module that uses named exports, the imported values will be an object with the exported values as properties. You can have multiple named exports per module.

Here’s an example of using export with named exports to export both a greeting and a farewell message:
``````
export const greeting = "Hello, world!";
export const farewell = "Goodbye, world!";
``````
And here’s an example of importing the named exports from another module:
``````
import { greeting, farewell } from "./greetings.js";
console.log(greeting); // outputs "Hello, world!"
console.log(farewell); // outputs "Goodbye, world!"
``````
When importing named exports, the import statement must use the `exact name` of the exported value, surrounded by `curly braces`.

###  _* as Export_
It is used to import the `whole module` as a component and access the components inside the module.

Here’s an example of export.
``````
export const MyComponent = () => {}
export const MyComponent2 = () => {}
export const MyComponent3 = () => {}
``````
Here’s an example of importing the `* as exports`
``````
import * as MainComponents from "./MyComponent";
``````
Now we can use them in JSX as:
``````
<MainComponents.MyComponent />
<MainComponents.MyComponent2 />
<MainComponents.MyComponent3 />
``````
We can use `Named export` and `Default export` together. So you should export like:
````````
export const MyComponent2 = () => {}
const MyComponent = () => {}
export default MyComponent;
````````

Import as following:
``````
import MyComponent, {MyComponent2} from "./MyComponent";
``````
## 2: What is the importance of config.js file?
To use static data which needs to be used all over the application. The files are structured in a particular way, formatted to be user configurable.Configuration files are very simple in structure.

## 3: What are React Hooks?
In React version 16.8, React introduced a new pattern called `Hooks`. React Hooks are simple `JavaScript functions` that we can use to isolate the reusable part from a functional component. Hooks can be `stateful` and can manage `side-effects`. Hooks allow you to reuse stateful logic without changing your component hierarchy. This makes it easy to share Hooks among many components or with the community.
### _React provides a bunch of standard in-built hooks:_
- `useState`: To manage states. Returns a stateful value and an updater function to update it.
- `useEffect`: To manage side-effects like API calls, subscriptions, timers, mutations, and more.
- `useContext`: To return the current value for a context.
- `useReducer`: A useState alternative to help with complex state management.
- `useCallback`: It returns a memorized version of a callback to help a child component not re-render unnecessarily.
- `useMemo`: It returns a memoized value that helps in performance optimizations.
- `useRef`: It returns a ref object with a current property. The ref object is mutable. It is mainly used to access a child component imperatively.
- `useLayoutEffect`: It fires at the end of all DOM mutations. It's best to use useEffect as much as possible over this one as the useLayoutEffect fires synchronously.
- `useDebugValue`: Helps to display a label in React DevTools for custom hooks.

## 4: Why do we need useState Hook?
`useState hook` is used to maintain the state in our React application. It keeps track of the state changes so basically useState has the ability to encapsulate local state in a functional component. The useState hook is a special function that takes the `initial state` as an `argument` and `returns an array` of two entries. UseState encapsulate only singular value from the state, for multiple state need to have useState calls.
### _Syntax for useState hook_
``````
const [state, setState] = useState(initialstate);
``````

### _Importing: To use useState you need to import useState from react as shown below:_
``````
import React, { useState } from "react";
``````
### _We can use Hooks in Functional Components_
``````
const Example = (props) => {
  // You can use Hooks here!
  return <div />;
}
``````